---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Migrate from 0.10.0
hide_title: false
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Version 0.11.0 has a number of changes to the commands and how information is displayed. 

While both new and old commands will work for version 0.11.0, they will not work in software version 0.12.0 and onward. 

Below find an explanation of changes to how the wallet works. 

## Create a wallet

**Up to version 0.11.0** 

Creating a wallet was done using the command:

```sh
vegawallet key generate --wallet WALLET_NAME
```

**Version 0.11.0 onwards**

Create a wallet using the command:

```sh
vegawallet create --wallet WALLET_NAME
```

For ease of use, the `create` command generates the first key.

**Deprecation** 

Creation of the wallet using the `key generate` command is deprecated and will be removed in version 0.12.0.

## Restore a wallet

**Version 0.11.0 onwards**

Using the `import` command generates the first key, just as the `create` command does.

**Deprecation** 

The `--mnemonic-file` flag has been deprecated in favour of the `--recovery-phrase-file` flag. The `--mnemonic-file` flag will be removed in version 0.12.0.

In the HTTP request for creating a wallet, the `mnemonic` property has been deprecated in favour of the `recoveryPhrase` property and will be removed in version 0.12.0.

In the HTTP reponse for importing a wallet, the `mnemonic` property has been deprecated in favour of the `recoveryPhrase` property and will be removed in version 0.12.0.

## Connect to a site using a proxy

**Up to version 0.11.0** 

In 0.10.0, starting the Vega Console through your wallet was achieved using the `--console-proxy` flag. 

**Version 0.11.0 onwards**

Starting the Vega Console through your wallet is done using the `--with-console` flag. 

It's now possible to proxy the Vega Token dApp from the command line with the `--with-token-dapp` flag.

Both sites can be started in a single command:

```sh
vegawallet service run --network NETWORK --with-console --with-token-dapp
```

**Deprecation** 

`--console-proxy` is deprecated in favour of `--with-console` and doesn't have a short version anymore. The old command will continue to work until version 0.12.0 is released.

## Send a command or transaction

**Up to version 0.11.0** 

The command used to send a command or a raw transaction was:

```sh
vegawallet send command ...
vegawallet send tx ...
```

**Version 0.11.0 onwards** 

It now matches the rest of the command line semantics:

```sh
vegawallet command send ...
vegawallet tx send ...
```

**Deprecation** 

The `send command` and `send transaction` commands will be removed from version 0.12.0, and only `command send` and `tx send` will be available.

## More guidance in help

The `--help` flag offers more information about each command and sub-command.  You'll see an explanation of each command and examples of how to use them. 

## How can I print my private keys?

For security reasons, Vega Wallet will no longer print the private keys on any output, and it cannot be accessed from any commands.

In most cases, Vega Wallet can take care of your needs by using the available commands.

## Networks are not generated by default

Default network configurations are not embedded in Vega Wallet anymore. They all need to be imported.

As a result, running the `init` command won't generate the `fairground` network configuration anymore.
