---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Migrate from 0.10.0
hide_title: false
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Version 0.11.0 has a number of changes to the commands and how information is displayed. While both sets of commands will work for version 0.11.0, that won't be true in a future version. 

Below find an explanation of changes to how the wallet works. 

## Create a wallet

Up to the version 0.10.0, creating a wallet is done through the command:
```sh
vegawallet key generate --wallet MY_NEW_WALLET
```

From the version 0.11.0, the creation is done through the command:
```sh
vegawallet create --wallet MY_NEW_WALLET
```

For ease of use, the `create` command generate the first key.

Creation of the wallet through the `key generate` command is deprecated and will be removed in version 0.12.0.

## Restore a wallet

From the version 0.11.0, using the `import` command generate the first key similarly with the `create` command.

The `--mnemonic-file` flag has been deprecated in favor of the `--recovery-phrase-file` flag. The `--mnemonic-file` flag will be removed in version 0.12.0.

In the HTTP request for creating a wallet, the `mnemonic` property has been deprecated in favor of the `recoveryPhrase` property and will be removed in version 0.12.0.

In the HTTP reponse for importing a wallet, the `mnemonic` property has been deprecated in favor of the `recoveryPhrase` property and will be removed in version 0.12.0.

## Running the service with proxies

Starting the Vega Console proxy was acheived through the `--console-proxy` flag. This flag is deprecated in favor of `--with-console` and doesn't have a short version anymore. It will be removed in version 0.12.0.

It's now possible to proxy the Vega Token dApp from the command line with the `--with-token-dapp` flag.

The proxies can be started next to each other in a single command:
```sh
vegawallet service run --network NETWORK --with-console --with-token-dapp
```

## Send a command using and a transaction through the CLI

Prior to version 0.11.0, the command used to send a command or a raw transaction is:
``sh
vegawallet send command ...
vegawallet send tx ...
```

It's now matching the rest of the command line semantic:
```sh
vegawallet command send ...
vegawallet tx send ...
```

## More guidance in help

The `--help` flags across commands offer more information about each command and sub-command.  You'll see an explanation of each command, and examples of how to use them. 

## How can I print my private keys ?

For security reasons, we decided to not print the private keys on any output, and cannot be accessed from any commands anymore. In most cases, Vega Wallet can take care of your needs by using an appropriate command.

## Networks are not generated by default

We decided to not embed default network configurations in Vega Wallet. They all need to be imported.

As a result, running the `init` command won't generate `fairground` network configuration anymore.
